All right, so in the last
video we saw that how
the static method works.
And it's a pretty interesting
way to declare utilities
and all those things.
But there is one, drawback or kind
of a thing where the static
method doesn't work really well,
which is when you initialize an
object, the static methods are
never designed to initialize any
objects.
It just work is designed to.
So that class can actually
direct, invoke that and can
just use it like a utility.
But there is also one more
interesting thing, which is how do
you control the constructor?
We have seen we can use init method
for declaring a constructor, but can
we have more than one constructor?
Sadly, no.
You can have just one constructor,
but there are ways to control the
constructor and get a feeling like
we have more than one constructor
and more than one ways of kind of
initiating an object from the class
itself.
It's a very interesting topic
and sometimes it feels like it's
very similar to static method.
But I'll walk you through with that.
So, first of all, I've
created this nice diagram.
So.
And I will walk you through
how it's being done.
So the step one is going
to be like this.
We will simply go ahead and say
that we have this class methods,
we have the static method.
We'll go through with the difference
between each one of them.
But first of all, we are going
to go ahead and write, some code.
So that is the easiest way
and the most beautiful way
to learn about the class method.
So let's take some chi orders.
I'll go ahead and say class
chorder, and you take
the order just like that.
And, we simply go ahead and say
that we want to create
an constructor just like this.
And you take, while taking the order,
you ask them, hey, what's
the T type you want to have, what's
the sweetness you want to have?
And what's the size you want to have?
Pretty basic stuff.
And as you know, when we declare
the constructor, we simply go
ahead and declare the properties
within the constructor itself.
This will be tea type, and we'll
get the value from tea type.
We'll have self dot and we'll call
this one as sweetness, which will
get its value from sweetness.
And we'll have one more property
which will be self size, which
will get the value from size.
All right, this is
very standard stuff.
We have seen this many times now.
If you want to have multiple
constructor, this is somebody is
creating an object and providing
you each individual values but
there could be a chance that
somebody might provide you a
value in dictionary format or
maybe a string format.
And you want to have
a constructor just like that.
That whenever an object is
being created, somebody can
provide me direct values.
We accept that.
Somebody can provide me the value in
dictionary format, we accept that.
And somebody can provide me value
in the string format.
We also accept that that
is the whole goal.
So the step one of doing that
is first of all you say class
method, it's a decorator.
Now that we understand
the decorator and importance of it,
then this is how it works.
First of all, let's define a method.
Let's call this one that we
are accepting the value
in the dictionary format.
And the most differential factor from
any other method that you design
in any class is it doesn't get self.
Yeah, that's the most
interesting part.
It gets cls, which is also a keyword.
It means that we are getting a whole
class reference in this one.
And then you just get the order
data just like that.
This time you're not getting
individual data, you're getting
passed on as a dictionary.
So how do we work with that?
We simply go ahead and return.
And how do we return that?
That's interesting syntax.
Follow this, up.
This is a syntax, nothing
to do with the logic.
We simply go ahead
and say this is a class.
So I can just go ahead and create
a class just like this.
This is almost internally
like calling the constructor
from the same class.
The CLS is a reference to the class.
So, so this whole class.
So when you say CLS just like
this, that means I'm passing
the whole values within this
constructor behind the scene.
So I can just come up here and can
say that, okay, here from the order
data, I want to extract a key.
So first of all, the key that goes
up here will be in the quotes,
of course, will be ttype.
And remember, this is how
the values are being expected
in this constructor.
So you go ahead and do exactly same
and I'll put
up a comma, we need two of them.
So the second key, you guessed
it right, will be sweetness.
This third key will be
size, and that is it.
So how interesting a way that now you
have not only just one constructor,
but you can actually accept
the value as a dictionary as well.
But behind the scene it's the same
constructor that is getting called.
And, can we design one more method
just like this for practice?
Of course we can.
We will again use class
method just like this.
And let's Just say this
time you want to take the value
from string string.
Just make sure you are designing
it such a way that you are preparing
for a string to come up here.
This is class.
And this time somebody gives us
order string or order data.
Could be same variable,
no big deal there.
And this time what I'm going
to see is I have three variables.
The first one is ttype.
I have another one
which is sweetness.
And I have another one size.
And I am getting all of them value
from the order string.
But I want to split it
and I want to split it based on.
Depends on how you're
taking the value.
Let's just say we are splitting
them based on dashes.
Could be comma as well, but we'll
just grab the value just like this.
All right, but this is not done yet.
End of the day, always, always
this kind of a method has
to call the class just like this
and has to call constructor.
The rest of the,
whole process is exactly same.
We have to get
the sweetness and the size.
And this is it.
This is.
You are overwriting the constructor.
Now the most important part
is, all right, we get
this, this part is all easy.
How do we create object from this?
Now creating the basic
object is fine.
I know you can do this.
I'll show you how to actually
utilize, these two methods.
Because if still at this point
in the course you don't know how
to create an object and from this
class and get these values.
Oh man, you need
to rewatch the videos again.
Let me go through with this one.
So let's just say we have
a order one and this order
one this time actually takes
order from the chai order.
But instead of passing it like this,
you use a method as
soon as you put up a dot.
Now you can take order
in the dictionary format or string
and you will see this pattern
quite a lot in Python.
And here I have to say
the key value pair.
So this is my key.
So first of all the key will
go like this, so ttype.
And then I can just provide the value
which will be masala.
Then another key value pair,
sweetness, and its value is going
to be, I don't know, medium,
I don't know what even stands
for medium, but you get the idea.
And we'll have the last
one which is size.
And once I give it a size, the size
will be, I'll take a large one this
time and this is completely valid.
Completely.
Fine.
And once I have, let me also
show you the Order 2 as well.
Order 2 this is exactly same chi
order but this time you are grabbing
the value from the string and as
we have designed it this way.
So we'll have a ginger ginger.
Then we have a dash.
We'll take the low
sugar and then dash and we'll
call this one as small.
So automatically it
will split this up.
Now let's go ahead and print
what do we get the value
in the order 1 and order 2.
That's most important part,
we can just grab any one.
Doesn't really mean order 1 is fine.
This next one you'll
automatically get it.
I'll open this up and let's see,
we have a Python 3 this time 10.
There we go.
And notice here it says hey, I'm
still an object of chi order object
at best wherever the location is.
This is interesting.
Now another interesting thing
that you can do is you can
use so many dunders here.
So one of the dunder that you
will see is this dictionary.
And let's see what happens
when I go ahead and run this.
So notice here all
the values are here.
So all the dictionaries are
with me still if I go ahead
and pass on the dictionary.
Now this dict dunder is
actually very interesting.
Although you have this as a string.
Now notice here, very
interesting part, I still have
all this value up here.
Very, very interesting way.
Can we have an order three as well?
I guess we can have order three,
order three and this time
we use simplychai order
and we pass on all the values.
So we simply go ahead and tea type
let's just say we want
to pass the value of large.
Then the second one, sweetness,
we'll call this one as low
and we will go like this and size
will go with the large as well.
Now can we go ahead and print
out this exact same thing
for the Order 3 as well?
That would be super interesting
to know about it.
And there we go, you still
have all the values, so
all the key value pairs.
If you want to get all the values
as dictionary you can actually go
ahead and it's a good idea to
study more about this dict dunder.
Pretty interesting one
and I'm pretty sure you learned
something new about it.
But I don't want to just call
this video just right up here.
There is little bit more that
I want to show you here.
Let's just say we have defined
these classes and everything.
Now I come back here to just
show you that how static
methods are different.
We create another class which
is chi utils and the whole job
of chi utils is we don't have
any construct or anything.
We have a static method
just like this.
And I can define a simple is
valid, is valid size and
somebody passed me on this size
and I can say return return size
in and we can just check for it
like this.
If it is in small or
medium we have to be very careful
for the uppercase,
lowercase how it's going on.
So be careful with that
large and this is example
of how this can be done.
So before taking the order or
just at the time of taking
the order, you can just ask for it.
So I can just go ahead and print
and I can say hi utils,
I want to use a method there
is only one is valid size.
So customer is ordering me a medium.
You can just go ahead and tell me
that whether it is a size or not.
And then only after getting this
if clause, if I get the true,
I take the rest of the order.
So this is how it's being done.
Now coming back onto the part, I
hope this actually made it
clear that all right, static
method has their own place in
the world and the class method
has its own way of working with
that.
Coming back onto
the diagram which I draw.
So the class method it always
receive the CLS the class itself
while the static method receives
no argument automatic first argument
like we have seen that.
No self, nothing like that.
So it doesn't take anything it if
you have a sense like there's a
use case of passing the argument
you can but there is no self
there the use case this operates
on the class, not on the
instance.
Remember that we never
created an instance, it
operates on the class.
Whenever we are returning we are
actually calling the class itself.
No object was created there.
Utility functions related
to the class.
We have seen that.
Again, the class method, does
it have access to the class?
Yes, it has Static never has it.
Do they have access to the self
and as you have seen, no, none
of them have the access to the self.
So these are some of the differences
between the static
method as well as class method.
So hope this video has given you
enough of idea that all right,
I know pretty much really in
depth detail of the Python
which I have never seen that oh
Python can go this depth in
such depth.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.
Don't forget to rate us.